# Keywords
## Big dataEconomic forecastingData miningSpatio-temporal

1. DSM: Under the complex economic situation, what challenges are the traditional economic and financial forecasting methods facing?
Shouyang Wang: First, in the era of big data, the current common economic and financial forecasting methods have timeliness problems. Specifically, the existing statistical methods of data have the problem of time lag, so it is difficult to catch the trend changes in time in the face of emergencies, which cannot provide timely and effective suggestions for decision-making departments.

Second, with the limited depth of data mining in the traditional segmented fields of economics and finance, it is difficult to guarantee the accuracy of analysis and prediction results only by traditional analysis granularity. Meanwhile, it is difficult to effectively support decision-making in the development of emerging industries or segmented fields.

Third, attention should be paid to avoid the common statistical bias in data collection. We should focus on building a systematic and intelligent data acquisition framework. The possibility of manual false should be avoided in the whole acquisition process. At the same time, we should pay attention to the quality inspection of data collection.

Fourth, the current economic situation is extremely complex with multiple risks and uncertainties. Therefore, it is the key research direction of economic monitoring and forecasting in the future to expand the traditional forecasting technology and develop prediction models that can quantify various complex economic phenomena.

2. DSM: What is the difference and relation between economic and financial data forecasting driven by big data and traditional economic and financial data forecasting?
Shouyang Wang: First of all, the difference lies in methodology and data-driven modeling. (1) Focusing on the application but ignoring the theoretical issues, especially the methodological issues, is a common trend in the research of big data-driven economic and financial data forecasting. (2) Economic and financial data forecasting driven by big data will replace the forecasting model based on partial economic and financial data in the past. Besides, the differences between the two also lie in data timeliness, multi-dimension, multi-attribute, and other characteristics.

Secondly, the relation between the two can be summarized into three points. (1) There are some subjective transcendental constructions of traditional theories in the big data forecasting model. (2) Big data still need to be screened. Big data forecasting can learn from methods of data quality control in traditional modeling strategies to reduce forecasting errors caused by data deviations. (3) The importance of causal analysis also leads to the introduction of economic and financial theory into big data modeling research to correct the deviation of model design at the theoretical level.

3. DSM: What are the general ideas and key issues of big data-driven economic and financial forecasting methods?
Shouyang Wang: General ideas: (1) Collecting multi-source heterogeneous data. All kinds of big data related to the economy and finance should be obtained, such as news comments, image data, and so on. (2) Based on fully absorbing the theoretical foundations and essence of the model method in economic monitoring and forecasting, it is necessary to build a comprehensive forecasting framework by applying machine learning, deep learning, complex network, natural language processing, and other information technologies in a large scale to achieve the effect of accurate economic monitoring and forecasting. (3) It is necessary to gradually build data assets related to forecasting, such as data feature database, algorithm model library, forecasting index library.

Key issues: data supply; feature engineering; core technology.

4. DSM: What are the characteristics of the research paradigm of economic and financial data forecasting in the complexity management system based on big data analysis?
Shouyang Wang: First, in terms of epistemology, the “black box mechanism” has been introduced into economic and financial data forecasting. Compared with the traditional quantitative research, which pursues clarity and theoretical mechanism explanation, the sense of absolutist epistemology in forecasting has been weakened. Second, in the problem domain, forecasting not only focuses on the correlation and causal mechanism from cause to result, but also includes the accurate estimation of the target variables as task category. Third, in terms of research methodology, forecasting relies on theory concerns about the “counterfactual” framework and pays attention to the training model and testing model by using algorithm and data. Fourth, in terms of general rules, the forecasting is no longer dependent on the traditional hypothesis testing rules and model recognition techniques such as the significance level of the regression coefficient, but a series of new standards focusing on forecasting accuracy are adopted.

5. DSM: What are the development trends of economic and financial modeling and forecasting methods based on big data?
Shouyang Wang: First, we depict the characteristics of data with high frequency and longer span. A more accurate grasp of the non-stationary and time-varying characteristics of longer time series data will be the development trend of modeling and forecasting methods in the age of big data. Besides, with easier access to high-frequency data in the field of economy and finance, the emphasis is also given to the methods of solving problems in the characteristics of high-frequency data.

Second, modeling and application of high-dimensional unstructured data. At present, more than 80% of the data is unstructured. Besides, the data is high-dimensional and nonlinear, which requires an important tool, machine learning technology. And the robustness of the model needs to be verified.

Third, making full use of the combination of model selection and forecasting. Model uncertainty widely exists in various fields of economic and financial modeling, analysis, and forecasting. The method of integrated prediction based on the model is the main way to solve the problem of model uncertainty, which can grasp the characteristics of different variables, and finally achieve efficient modeling and accurate prediction through the combination of prediction methods.

6. DSM: How to further expand the forecasting theory in economy and finance in the face of big data with high-dimensional, unstructured, spatio-temporal attributes?
Shouyang Wang: The following two issues should be paid attention to while extending forecasting theory in the face of big data with high-dimensional, unstructured, and spatio-temporal attributes. First, we should solve the problem of big data information mining, such as feature screening and feature extraction of high-dimensional data, transformation and extraction of unstructured “variable” information, and effective utilization of social networks and spatial information. Second, it is different from the traditional economic and financial modeling and forecasting. That is, in most cases, it is assumed that there is a certain functional relationship between the explanatory and explained variables. Forecasting theory should study the relationship between variables in the age of big data. For example, it should make computer use the sample data to “learn” the relationship automatically between explanatory variables and economic variables relying on the machine learning process, realizing the gradual self-improvement of the forecasting model, improving the forecasting accuracy and enriching the forecasting theory through training and learning.

7. DSM: How does big data-driven economic and financial forecasting relate to management decisions?
Shouyang Wang: Economic and financial forecasting driven by big data provides abundant possibilities for modeling, forecasting, and decision-making of management systems. At present, the traditional managerial decision-making paradigm is gradually changing from the linear paradigm based on the management process to the new flat interactive paradigm centered on data. The roles of all participants in managerial decision-making and the flow of relevant information tend to be diversified and interactive, which makes the new managerial decision-making paradigm present a panoramic feature driven by big data. Specifically, the research on economic and financial forecasting in the age of big data can be used as the entry point of managerial decision-making by mining, extracting, and identifying valid multi-source heterogeneous variables, thus promoting the establishment of new variable relationship and theoretical model, and improving the timeliness and effectiveness of managerial decision-making.

8. DSM: How to seize the right direction of research on economic and financial forecasting and highlight the impact of digital elements (data) on social governance in the post-epidemic era?
Shouyang Wang: At present, with the disruption of the COVID-19 epidemic, we should consider the long-term and medium-term impact. In the medium-term, short-term economic growth is inhibited, and there is a demand for economic recovery after the end of the epidemic. It needs policy support from the perspective of countercyclical regulation to effectively release the suppressed demand during the epidemic period and stabilize economic growth. Therefore, we should place great emphasis on the economic and financial modeling driven by digital elements to accurately depict social needs. In the long run, the outbreak of the epidemic has exposed some problems in economic and social development and also provided a window period for promoting reforms. Focusing on the shortcomings and deficiencies exposed by the epidemic, it is necessary to carry out long-term reform through economic and financial forecasting research driven by digital elements, to ensure the long-term sustainable development of the economy and society.